Pricing guide (#702)
liveblocks/liveblocks: docs/pages/guides/pricing.mdx

---
meta:
  title: "Pricing"
  parentTitle: "Guides"
  description: "Explanation of Liveblocks 1.0 pricing model and implementation"
---

With the release of Liveblocks 1.0, we included new pricing plans that are based
on Monthly Active Users (MAU). This guide will help you understand how to use
the new pricing plans by providing guidance on the migration to Liveblocks 1.0

> and how to include a `userId` into the `authorize` method if you use it.

Reviewer: I'm not sure, but maybe we should be more generic and say: 

> and how to include a `userId` when generating a token with the secret api key.

## What is a Monthly Active User (MAU)? [#what-is-mau]

In versions before 1.0 we used the number of connections to determine pricing
segments. We counted each time a user connected to a Liveblocks room from a
physical device as a connection. We introduced pricing based on Monthly Active
Users (MAU) to reflect the value that Liveblocks offers to our customers. MAU
makes pricing more predictable for our users by associating connections to
users.

A monthly active user can be defined as:

> - A `userId` that connects to a Liveblocks room at least once a month (if using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `userId` that connects to a Liveblocks room at least once a month (if using authorization with secret API key)
```

Reviewer: @taylorpwhipp When we "using authorization", is it clear enough that it's authorization with the secret API key?
IMO, with the public API key, it's still called authorization.

  authorization)
- An anonymous user who connects to a Liveblocks room, at least once a month who

>   can be identified by a cookie (if not using authorization)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can be identified by a cookie (if using authorization with public api key)
```

> ## How does authorization work with MAU? [#authorization]

Reviewer: I would also give an example of calling the endpoint directly: https://liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints#post-authorize

To take advantage of Liveblocks 1.0 pricing without authorization, you must
update your Liveblocks packages to 1.0. We will count each connection as one MAU
if you do not update your packages to 1.0. Once the packages are updated, a
cookie will be set on the client to track when a new user connects to a room.
This cookie will track MAU associated with a Liveblocks account and expire after
30 days.

Inside the `createClient` function, you will use your public key instead of a
private key.

```ts file="liveblocks.config.ts" highlight="4"
import { createClient } from "@liveblocks/client";

const client = createClient({
  publicApiKey: "pk_prod_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
});
```

To illustrate how counting MAU works without a `userId`, consider the following:

If you have one user who connects to a Liveblocks room that does not enforce
authorization, you will be billed for 1 MAU. That same person can reaccess a
room the next day, and MAU would not increase. The cookie will expire at the end
of the 30-day billing cycle, and the user will be counted as a new MAU.
Liveblocks will count that anonymous user as 2 MAU if packages are not updated.

> ## Development Use [#development-use]

Reviewer 2: Should be "Development use"

Reviewer 2: We could perhaps change this to reflect localhost usage even and explicitly say "Localhost usage isn’t included in your billing"? That way people can quickly scan this guide and get their most pressing question answered.

> While working in development mode, you will not be billed for MAU. However, you

Reviewer 2: There is a potential for confusion here because we have a concept of "development" type for projects. A project can either by production or development type, but that has no impact in billing. "localhost usage" is what does not get counted in billing. 

I think we should clarify that here.

Reviewer 3: Very good point! Didn't think of that, we'll clarify

will still need to include a `userId` in the `authorize` option if you use it.

> We are currently working on updating our dashboard to reflect the number of MAU

Reviewer: 👍
